# Why Queen Victoria was nicknamed the Grandmother of Europe

So this might be little different from the other blog posts, but I’d like to draw your attention towards a little history lesson about Queen Victoria, the creator of the British Empire.

On 24 May 1819 Alexandrina Victoria saw the light of the day at the Kensington Palace in London as the fifth in line for the succession to the throne. Only eight months after she was born, her father died. Due to his excessive indebtedness her mother had to reject the inheritance, but instead of going back to Germany stayed at the Kensington Palace. Princess Victoria had to deal with numerous attempts of manipulation during her childhood, but when her uncle King Willian IV died she became Queen. At the age of 18, on 20 June 1837, she got crowned and moved from Kensington Palace to the Buckingham Palace, which served for the first time as the official residence of a monarch. Three years later, Victoria married her cousin Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. They knew each other before and were deeply in love. Wearing a white dress at her wedding ceremony, it was her who set the trend! Giving her nine children, her husband died aged 42 due to either typhus or cancer. She was dressed in black her entire life and retired a year from the world. When she came back she attended to her duties but did not really join the public events. During her sixty-four years of reign she brought the United Kingdom from an industrial nation to the British Empire. At her Golden Jubilee the British citizens were proud of her country and her Queen. She was the first tot be called Empress of India (1876) and it was her who ruled over one fifth of the world and over one third of the world’s population. Queen Victoria was the symbol of imperialism. In 1897 Queen Victoria celebrated her Diamond Jubilee as the most respected and honoured person. She had reached her peak of popularity.

On 22 January 1901 Victoria died in the presence of her children. She never had a strong connection to her children, but made sure that they married across the European continent to secure the freedom. Queen Victoria had forty grandchildren and eighty-eight great-grandchildren spread throughout Europe. Hence she was nicknamed Grandmother of Europe.

Queen Victoria is the longest-ruling monarch of Great Britain and ruled during a time of economic and imperial expansion. It was her who gave the era its name. And it was her, who paved the way from the British Empire towards Europe.